index.md, before:

---
layout: index
---
### Welcome! Let's do some Open Source!
Contributing to open source for the first time can be scary and a little overwhelming. Perhaps you're a [Code Newbie](http://www.codenewbie.org) or maybe you've been coding for a while but haven't found a project you felt comfortable contributing to.


### You can do it! Here's how.
If you have never contributed to an open source project before and you're just getting started, consider exploring these resources.

* [http://up-for-grabs.net](http://up-for-grabs.net) is a site that aggregates (rolls up and makes easy to explore) projects that actively *want* help. They label those projects with things like "up-for-grabs," "jump-in" or "help wanted." 
* Read blog posts and guides on how to [contribute to an open source project](http://www.hanselman.com/blog/GetInvolvedInOpenSourceTodayHowToContributeAPatchToAGitHubHostedOpenSourceProjectLikeCode52.aspx), then pick one!
* If you're just getting started with tech and are considering being a social developer, we've made a documentary training movie for you! [Get Involved in Tech](http://www.getinvolvedintech.com) walks you through setting up your GitHub account, exploring StackOverflow, setting up a blog and starting to tweet!
* Wondering what someone else's first contribution was? You can easily find out any GitHub username's "[First Pull Request](http://firstpr.me/)" here! (I think you'll find that most people's first PRs were relatively small [like Kent's](http://firstpr.me/#kentcdodds)).
* We think that Open Source projects [should value civility and kindness and be patient with new developers](http://www.hanselman.com/blog/BringKindnessBackToOpenSource.aspx) and we encourage you to explore projects that have a published [Code of Conduct](http://contributor-covenant.org/) and we hope you do too!

### Yes, it's scary. But SO rewarding!

We asked folks on Twitter what they felt like when they made their first contribution to an Open Source Project. Here's just a few of their tweets.

Some had great experiences:

<blockquote class="twitter-tweet" data-conversation="none" lang="en"><p lang="en" dir="ltr"><a href="https://twitter.com/shanselman">@shanselman</a> proud and excited. Added a feature to freecodecamp. Felt welcomed and wondered what else I was able to do.</p>&mdash; Ashley Drake (@al_draco) <a href="https://twitter.com/al_draco/status/630564607527137280">August 10, 2015</a></blockquote>

<blockquote class="twitter-tweet" data-conversation="none" lang="en"><p lang="en" dir="ltr"><a href="https://twitter.com/shanselman">@shanselman</a> I&#39;ve added a case for my project in ServiceStack.Text + small test. Jumped around office for an hour when it was approved.</p>&mdash; Victor Suzdalev (@victor_suzdalev) <a href="https://twitter.com/victor_suzdalev/status/630609157218041857">August 10, 2015</a></blockquote>

<blockquote class="twitter-tweet" data-conversation="none" lang="en"><p lang="en" dir="ltr"><a href="https://twitter.com/shanselman">@shanselman</a> Proud. It is really great to something you did on the web for others to see.</p>&mdash; Mark (@marcusp619) <a href="https://twitter.com/marcusp619/status/630549004015644672">August 10, 2015</a></blockquote>

<blockquote class="twitter-tweet" data-conversation="none" lang="en"><p lang="en" dir="ltr"><a href="https://twitter.com/shanselman">@shanselman</a> added expression support for labels in a GIS project. Felt fantastic. Now core developer on said project.</p>&mdash; Nathan Woodrow (@madmanwoo) <a href="https://twitter.com/madmanwoo/status/630546384865722369">August 10, 2015</a></blockquote>

Some had bad experiences. The purpose of `first-timers-only` is to help everyone have an empowering and welcoming first experience as they enter the world of Open Source Software! 

<blockquote class="twitter-tweet" data-conversation="none" lang="en"><p lang="en" dir="ltr"><a href="https://twitter.com/shanselman">@shanselman</a> Can&#39;t remember the project, but it felt hostile, because I didn&#39;t know the contribution rules of the project, and got remarks.</p>&mdash; Bart Verkoeijen (@bgever) <a href="https://twitter.com/bgever/status/630598265365401601">August 10, 2015</a></blockquote>

### Are you an OSS Project Owner?

If you are an OSS (Open Source Software) Project owner, then consider marking a few open issues with the label [first-timers-only](https://github.com/search?q=label%3Afirst-timers-only&state=open&type=Issues). The `first-timers-only` label explicitly announces: 

> I'm willing to hold your hand so you can make your first PR. This issue is rather a bit easier than normal.
> And anyone who's already contributed to open source isn't allowed to touch this one!

First timer contributions are normally very small and easy (One [recent `first-timers-only`](https://github.com/formly-js/angular-formly/pull/415/files) issue was literally three lines of simple changes! And the changes were [described in great detail](https://github.com/formly-js/angular-formly/issues/410#issuecomment-127227984) and tested by the project maintainer). But this makes it easier for the contributor to _get the hang of the contribution process rather than the contribution itself._ Remember, this isn't as much about getting your project features implemented quickly as it is about helping first timers.

Why is YAL (yet another label) like `first-timers-only` important? Because it makes a statement that first timers are welcome, that they are valued, and that they can start on your project! Often [the hard part of getting into open source for the first time isn’t the implementation of a feature, but figuring out how to actually contribute code](https://medium.com/@kentcdodds/first-timers-only-78281ea47455) such that the pull request is accepted! But, oh the feeling of accomplishment when your first PR is merged!

Go label an issue or two with `first-timers-only` and *advertise that those issues exist! Walk a newbie a week (or a month) through the process! Document the process, blog and tweet about it and encourage those first timers to do the same! And add this badge to your repo's README:

[![first-timers-only](http://img.shields.io/badge/first--timers--only-friendly-blue.svg?style=flat-square)](http://www.firsttimersonly.com/)

[Kent C. Dodds](https://twitter.com/kentcdodds) proposed [First Timers Only](https://medium.com/@kentcdodds/first-timers-only-78281ea47455) to get  new people to make their first contribution. [Scott Hanselman](http://hanselman.com) blogged about [Bringing Kindness Back to Open Source](http://www.hanselman.com/blog/BringKindnessBackToOpenSource.aspx), so it was obvious that we team up and promote these ideas and get more folks involved in open source.

[Charlotte Spencer](https://twitter.com/charlotteis) created a great twitter account called [@yourfirstpr](https://twitter.com/yourfirstpr) that exists to showcase great issues that a newbie can solve in order to create "Your First PullRequest!" We recommend you follow [@yourfirstpr](https://twitter.com/yourfirstpr) and let them know if your OSS project has a firsttimers only tag and you have open issues that you'll reserve for a new contributor!

### Empower a First Timer today!
We believe - and we hope you do too - that learning how to code, how to think, *and* _how to contribute to open source_ can empower the next generation of coders and creators. We VALUE first time contributors and we want them to know that everyone started somewhere! Start here! 

<script async src="//platform.twitter.com/widgets.js" charset="utf-8"></script>

Commit message:

Add reference to @first_tmrs_only.
Closes #11.

index.md, after:

---
layout: index
---
### Welcome! Let's do some Open Source!
Contributing to open source for the first time can be scary and a little overwhelming. Perhaps you're a [Code Newbie](http://www.codenewbie.org) or maybe you've been coding for a while but haven't found a project you felt comfortable contributing to.


### You can do it! Here's how.
If you have never contributed to an open source project before and you're just getting started, consider exploring these resources.

* [http://up-for-grabs.net](http://up-for-grabs.net) is a site that aggregates (rolls up and makes easy to explore) projects that actively *want* help. They label those projects with things like "up-for-grabs," "jump-in" or "help wanted." 
* Read blog posts and guides on how to [contribute to an open source project](http://www.hanselman.com/blog/GetInvolvedInOpenSourceTodayHowToContributeAPatchToAGitHubHostedOpenSourceProjectLikeCode52.aspx), then pick one!
* If you're just getting started with tech and are considering being a social developer, we've made a documentary training movie for you! [Get Involved in Tech](http://www.getinvolvedintech.com) walks you through setting up your GitHub account, exploring StackOverflow, setting up a blog and starting to tweet!
* Wondering what someone else's first contribution was? You can easily find out any GitHub username's "[First Pull Request](http://firstpr.me/)" here! (I think you'll find that most people's first PRs were relatively small [like Kent's](http://firstpr.me/#kentcdodds)).
* We think that Open Source projects [should value civility and kindness and be patient with new developers](http://www.hanselman.com/blog/BringKindnessBackToOpenSource.aspx) and we encourage you to explore projects that have a published [Code of Conduct](http://contributor-covenant.org/) and we hope you do too!

### Yes, it's scary. But SO rewarding!

We asked folks on Twitter what they felt like when they made their first contribution to an Open Source Project. Here's just a few of their tweets.

Some had great experiences:

<blockquote class="twitter-tweet" data-conversation="none" lang="en"><p lang="en" dir="ltr"><a href="https://twitter.com/shanselman">@shanselman</a> proud and excited. Added a feature to freecodecamp. Felt welcomed and wondered what else I was able to do.</p>&mdash; Ashley Drake (@al_draco) <a href="https://twitter.com/al_draco/status/630564607527137280">August 10, 2015</a></blockquote>

<blockquote class="twitter-tweet" data-conversation="none" lang="en"><p lang="en" dir="ltr"><a href="https://twitter.com/shanselman">@shanselman</a> I&#39;ve added a case for my project in ServiceStack.Text + small test. Jumped around office for an hour when it was approved.</p>&mdash; Victor Suzdalev (@victor_suzdalev) <a href="https://twitter.com/victor_suzdalev/status/630609157218041857">August 10, 2015</a></blockquote>

<blockquote class="twitter-tweet" data-conversation="none" lang="en"><p lang="en" dir="ltr"><a href="https://twitter.com/shanselman">@shanselman</a> Proud. It is really great to something you did on the web for others to see.</p>&mdash; Mark (@marcusp619) <a href="https://twitter.com/marcusp619/status/630549004015644672">August 10, 2015</a></blockquote>

<blockquote class="twitter-tweet" data-conversation="none" lang="en"><p lang="en" dir="ltr"><a href="https://twitter.com/shanselman">@shanselman</a> added expression support for labels in a GIS project. Felt fantastic. Now core developer on said project.</p>&mdash; Nathan Woodrow (@madmanwoo) <a href="https://twitter.com/madmanwoo/status/630546384865722369">August 10, 2015</a></blockquote>

Some had bad experiences. The purpose of `first-timers-only` is to help everyone have an empowering and welcoming first experience as they enter the world of Open Source Software! 

<blockquote class="twitter-tweet" data-conversation="none" lang="en"><p lang="en" dir="ltr"><a href="https://twitter.com/shanselman">@shanselman</a> Can&#39;t remember the project, but it felt hostile, because I didn&#39;t know the contribution rules of the project, and got remarks.</p>&mdash; Bart Verkoeijen (@bgever) <a href="https://twitter.com/bgever/status/630598265365401601">August 10, 2015</a></blockquote>

### Are you an OSS Project Owner?

If you are an OSS (Open Source Software) Project owner, then consider marking a few open issues with the label [first-timers-only](https://github.com/search?q=label%3Afirst-timers-only&state=open&type=Issues). The `first-timers-only` label explicitly announces: 

> I'm willing to hold your hand so you can make your first PR. This issue is rather a bit easier than normal.
> And anyone who's already contributed to open source isn't allowed to touch this one!

First timer contributions are normally very small and easy (One [recent `first-timers-only`](https://github.com/formly-js/angular-formly/pull/415/files) issue was literally three lines of simple changes! And the changes were [described in great detail](https://github.com/formly-js/angular-formly/issues/410#issuecomment-127227984) and tested by the project maintainer). But this makes it easier for the contributor to _get the hang of the contribution process rather than the contribution itself._ Remember, this isn't as much about getting your project features implemented quickly as it is about helping first timers.

Why is YAL (yet another label) like `first-timers-only` important? Because it makes a statement that first timers are welcome, that they are valued, and that they can start on your project! Often [the hard part of getting into open source for the first time isn’t the implementation of a feature, but figuring out how to actually contribute code](https://medium.com/@kentcdodds/first-timers-only-78281ea47455) such that the pull request is accepted! But, oh the feeling of accomplishment when your first PR is merged!

Go label an issue or two with `first-timers-only` and *advertise that those issues exist! Walk a newbie a week (or a month) through the process! Document the process, blog and tweet about it and encourage those first timers to do the same! And add this badge to your repo's README:

[![first-timers-only](http://img.shields.io/badge/first--timers--only-friendly-blue.svg?style=flat-square)](http://www.firsttimersonly.com/)

[Kent C. Dodds](https://twitter.com/kentcdodds) proposed [First Timers Only](https://medium.com/@kentcdodds/first-timers-only-78281ea47455) to get  new people to make their first contribution. [Scott Hanselman](http://hanselman.com) blogged about [Bringing Kindness Back to Open Source](http://www.hanselman.com/blog/BringKindnessBackToOpenSource.aspx), so it was obvious that we team up and promote these ideas and get more folks involved in open source.

[Charlotte Spencer](https://twitter.com/charlotteis) created a great twitter account called [@yourfirstpr](https://twitter.com/yourfirstpr) that exists to showcase great issues that a newbie can solve in order to create "Your First PullRequest!" We recommend you follow [@yourfirstpr](https://twitter.com/yourfirstpr) and let them know if your OSS project has a firsttimers only tag and you have open issues that you'll reserve for a new contributor!

[Utkarsh Upadhyay](https://twitter.com/musically_ut) created a bot called [@first_tmrs_only](https://twitter.com/first_tmrs_only) which tweets when a new first-timers-only issue is posted on GitHub. Follow it to stay abreast with latest first-timers-only issues!

### Empower a First Timer today!
We believe - and we hope you do too - that learning how to code, how to think, *and* _how to contribute to open source_ can empower the next generation of coders and creators. We VALUE first time contributors and we want them to know that everyone started somewhere! Start here! 

<script async src="//platform.twitter.com/widgets.js" charset="utf-8"></script>
